In 2001, future Y Combinator founder Paul Graham [wrote](http://www.paulgraham.com/road.html):

>When we look back on the desktop software era, I think we'll marvel at the inconveniences people put up with, just as we marvel now at what early car owners put up with. For the first twenty or thirty years, you had to be a car expert to own a car. But cars were such a big win that lots of people who weren't car experts wanted to have them as well.

>Computers are in this phase now. When you own a desktop computer, you end up learning a lot more than you wanted to know about what's happening inside it. But more than half the households in the US own one. My mother has a computer that she uses for email and for keeping accounts. About a year ago she was alarmed to receive a letter from Apple, offering her a discount on a new version of the operating system. There's something wrong when a sixty-five year old woman who wants to use a computer for email and accounts has to think about installing new operating sytems. Ordinary users shouldn't even know the words "operating system," much less "device driver" or "patch."

>There is now another way to deliver software that will save users from becoming system administrators. Web-based applications are programs that run on Web servers and use Web pages as the user interface. For the average user this new kind of software will be easier, cheaper, more mobile, more reliable, and often more powerful than desktop software.

13 years later, these words might seem like just another badly mistaken technological forecast. Ordinary users still have to know about operating systems. But we may finally be close to the point where they won't have to.

Thanks to Gmail, the takeover of web-based e-mail is complete. I don't think I've opened an email program on purpose in a decade. (Chrome users who have issues with opening them accidentally when trying to copy an e-mail address into Gmail should see [this](https://support.google.com/chrome/answer/1382847).) And thanks to Google Drive, I may well go the rest of my life without ever again opening Microsoft Office or its competitors, though it will take a few years for Office to seem as quaint as e-mail clients.

Web-based services might seem like they'd be at a huge disadvantage compared to traditional desktop applications, because they need an internet connection in order to work. In practice, though, this doesn't matter, because WiFi is now almost as ubiquitous as power outlets. I've become so used to this that I've almost forgotten how to write an essay without having Google handy as a fact-checker. In that context, Drive's need for an internet connection isn't a meaningful constraint.

Even with e-mail and office programs in the cloud, you might still think so what?—you do lots of other things outside the browser, don't you? Well, reading Graham's essay, I had a thought that surprised me: there are really only three main things I still do the old-fashioned way. The first is reading PDFs, which modern browswers do, just not very well. The second is editing plaintext files. I wish Google Drive included that. Even though I may need my Python scripts stored on my own computer, there are times when Google Plaintext would be terribly convenient for writing essays in Markdown.

And then there's the Unix terminal. That's the interesting case—with PDFs and plaintext, it's obvious how you *would* solve the problem, I just haven't found a good implementation *yet*. It's less obvious how you'd replace the terminal. However, when I read Graham's essay, I briefly got excited about the idea of using an Amazon Web Services instance as my virtual laptop in the cloud. Unfortunately, to access an AWS instance through the browser, AWS wanted me to install Java, which I wasn't going to do.

Then I heard about [Terminal.com](https://www.terminal.com) through co-founder Jeff Wu, who I met at a party. Terminal.com turned out to be exactly what I'd hoped for in an in-browser version of the Unix terminal. Terminal also includes a simple plaintext editor, though not one that (in its current state) could replace TextMate or Sublime. If I continue using Terminal.com a lot, I'll have a motivation to get a lot better at using Vim.

At the moment, owning a Mac is virtually required for software developers. This has been a real problem for some of my friends who've been interested in learning programming. Terminal.com may be able to change this. I can already see myself making my next laptop purchase a Chromebook. Now I just need to find a better web-based PDF reader.